# Containers

A quick overview of containers and container images:

- A *container config file* is a sequence of OS-agnostic commands that can be translated by a piece of software called a *container engine* into the appropriate sequence of OS-particular commands. (Container config files for the popular container engine Docker are called "Dockerfiles". Docker is so popular that most open source container software still uses the Dockerfile format for container config files.)
- A *container image instance* is the prebuilt result acquired by using a container engine to execute the OS-particular commands specified in a container config file. Multiple container image instances can run independently on the same OS. Since each container image instance is allocated its own resources, *contains* its own files, and hosts its own processes, container image instances are called *containers*.  
- A container image that is the pre-assembled result of setting up a dev environment (by running various package install commands, DB config commands, app sever config commands, etc.) can be very useful for sharing a particular dev environment with others. To share the dev environment, just share the container config file! All that one who has the container config file has to do to set up the dev environment is install a container engine, and then tell the engine to build a container image from the config file.
- If we think of an "environment" as being the result of a sequence of OS-particular commands, it is accurate to say that **the power of containers is that container config files give a platform-agnostic interface to describing environments.** 
  - Note: with these dev container images, it's a matter of choice as to whether or not the container image includes the step of starting the dev servers. Most dev container images do have the start of the dev servers built into the image.
- Sometimes, downloading already built images is much faster than building said images from the container config files. Because of this, there exist *container image repositories* from which users can pull already-built container images. (So from another perspective, the power of containers is actually that you can quickly download the prebuilt results themselves.) When you use a container engine to such as Docker to pull a container image from an online repository, Docker makes sure to give you a version of the image that is configured for your OS.

